README.md, before:

# dotfiles

A place for keeping my configuration files synchronized across machines.

Configs have been compiled from various sources:

* [isaacs / dotfiles](https://github.com/isaacs/dotfiles "bash")
* [jferris / config_files](https://github.com/jferris/config_files "install.sh")
* [rtomayko / dotfiles](https://github.com/rtomayko/dotfiles "everything")
* [jpalardy / dotfiles](https://github.com/jpalardy/dotfiles "bash, bin/, vim")
* [sontek / dotfiles](https://github.com/sontek/dotfiles "bash, vim")
* [mislav / dotfiles](https://github.com/mislav/dotfiles "bash")
* [bitprophet / dotfiles](https://github.com/bitprophet/dotfiles "bash, vim")
* [bjeanes / dot-files](https://github.com/bjeanes/dot-files "bash, vim")
* [garybernhardt / dotfiles](https://github.com/garybernhardt/dotfiles "vim")
* [nelstrom / dotfiles](https://github.com/nelstrom/dotfiles "vim")
* [kevinw / vim](https://github.com/kevinw/vim "vim")
* [twerth / dotfiles](https://github.com/twerth/dotfiles "bash, vim")
* [chestone / homedir](https://github.com/chestone/homedir "vim")
* [bronson / dotfiles](https://github.com/bronson/dotfiles "bash, vim")
* [tpope / tpope](https://github.com/tpope/tpope "vim")
* [JNRowe / vim-configs](https://github.com/JNRowe/vim-configs "vim")
* [ciaranm / dotfiles](https://github.com/ciaranm/dotfiles "vim")
* [Pádraig Brady's .vimrc](http://www.pixelbeat.org/settings/.vimrc "vim")

The [Solarized](https://github.com/altercation/solarized) color scheme is used
for the terminal (.Xdefaults and .minttyrc), GNU ls
([.dir_colors](https://github.com/seebi/dircolors-solarized)), and vim.

The vim indent script for Python comes from http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=974.

## Gittip

[![Gittip](http://badgr.co/gittip/igetgames.png)](https://www.gittip.com/igetgames/)

Commit message:

Replace the Gittp section of README.md with my boilerplate Author section.

README.md, after:

# dotfiles

A place for keeping my configuration files synchronized across machines.

Configs have been compiled from various sources:

* [isaacs / dotfiles](https://github.com/isaacs/dotfiles "bash")
* [jferris / config_files](https://github.com/jferris/config_files "install.sh")
* [rtomayko / dotfiles](https://github.com/rtomayko/dotfiles "everything")
* [jpalardy / dotfiles](https://github.com/jpalardy/dotfiles "bash, bin/, vim")
* [sontek / dotfiles](https://github.com/sontek/dotfiles "bash, vim")
* [mislav / dotfiles](https://github.com/mislav/dotfiles "bash")
* [bitprophet / dotfiles](https://github.com/bitprophet/dotfiles "bash, vim")
* [bjeanes / dot-files](https://github.com/bjeanes/dot-files "bash, vim")
* [garybernhardt / dotfiles](https://github.com/garybernhardt/dotfiles "vim")
* [nelstrom / dotfiles](https://github.com/nelstrom/dotfiles "vim")
* [kevinw / vim](https://github.com/kevinw/vim "vim")
* [twerth / dotfiles](https://github.com/twerth/dotfiles "bash, vim")
* [chestone / homedir](https://github.com/chestone/homedir "vim")
* [bronson / dotfiles](https://github.com/bronson/dotfiles "bash, vim")
* [tpope / tpope](https://github.com/tpope/tpope "vim")
* [JNRowe / vim-configs](https://github.com/JNRowe/vim-configs "vim")
* [ciaranm / dotfiles](https://github.com/ciaranm/dotfiles "vim")
* [Pádraig Brady's .vimrc](http://www.pixelbeat.org/settings/.vimrc "vim")

The [Solarized](https://github.com/altercation/solarized) color scheme is used
for the terminal (.Xdefaults and .minttyrc), GNU ls
([.dir_colors](https://github.com/seebi/dircolors-solarized)), and vim.

The vim indent script for Python comes from http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=974.

## Author

The django-startproject project was created by Marcus R. Brown
([@igetgames](https://twitter.com/#!/igetgames) on Twitter). Send feedback to
mrossbrown@gmail.com.

[![Gittip](http://badgr.co/gittip/igetgames.png)](https://www.gittip.com/igetgames/)
